>> Ifill: THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE SLAPPED TOYOTA WITH A
HEFTY, $1.2 BILLION DOLLAR
PENALTY, SETTLING A LENGTHY
CRIMINAL PROBE INTO RECALLS OF
MILLIONS OF FAULTY CARS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, IN
CRIMEA, RUSSIAN-SPEAKING TROOPS
SEIZED A NAVAL BASE THERE
WITHOUT FIRING A SHOT AND
UKRAINE ANNOUNCED PLANS TO
EVACUATE IT'S MILITARY.
LESS THAN 24 HOURS AFTER MOSCOW
FORMALLY CLAIMED CONTROL OF THE
PENINSULA.
>> Ifill: AND WE HEAD TO THE
SOUTH FLORIDA COAST WHERE THERE
ARE WORRIES CLIMATE CHANGE IS
DRIVING SEA LEVELS HIGHER AND
HIGHER.
>> YOU'RE GOING TO SEE WATER
COMING OUT OF BISCAYNE BAY ONTO
THE STREETS UNTIL ITS OUT ABA
FOOT DEEP.
PEOPLE GO, "OH, WE BROKE A SEWER
MAIN, OR A WATER MAIN BROKE!"
THAT'S NOT WHAT IT IS, THAT'S
SEA LEVEL RISE.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: TOYOTA NOW FORMALLY
ADMITS IT MISLED CONSUMERS AND
REGULATORS OVER  UNINTENDED
ACCELERATION PROBLEMS IN ITS
CARS THAT TRIGGERED GLOBAL
RECALLS.
THE AUTO MAKER AGREED TO PAY
$1.2 BILLION THE LARGEST SUCH
FEDERAL PENALTY EVER IMPOSED ON
AN AUTO COMPANY.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
CASE RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: IN UKRAINE, THE NEW
LEADERS IN KIEV ANNOUNCED
THEY'RE DRAWING UP PLANS TO
EVACUATE UKRAINIAN TROOPS FROM
CRIMEA.
THIS CAME IN THE FACE OF RUSSIAN
MOVES TO CONSOLIDATE THEIR GRIP
ON THE BREAKAWAY PROVINCE.
>> Woodruff: PRO-RUSSIAN
MILITIAMEN PUSHED THEIR WAY INTO
PART OF THE UKRAINIAN NAVAL
HEADQUARTERS IN SEVASTOPOL THIS
MORNING.
SHORTLY AFTERWARD, THE RUSSIAN
FLAG WAS RAISED AT THE ENTRANCE
AS THE UKRAINIAN SERVICEMEN GAVE
WAY.
>> Woodruff: THERE IS NOTHING WE
CAN DO AGAINST THE CROWD,
NOTHING. EVERYTHING HAPPENED
SPONTANEOUSLY.
THERE WERE MANY PROMISES FROM
THE RUSSIAN SIDE AND OUR SIDE
THAT THE BASE WILL NOT BE
STORMED, THAT ALL ISSUES WILL BE
RESOLVED THROUGH POLITICAL
MEANS, BUT AS YOU SEE NOW, THERE
WAS A TAKEOVER.
NO ISSUES HAD BEEN RESOLVED
THROUGH POLITICAL MEANS.
DAY AFTER RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN SIGNED A TREATY
AIMED AT ANNEXING  CRIMEA.
IN RESPONSE, UKRAINE'S NATIONALY
FOR TURNING CRIMEA INTO A
DEMILITARIZED ZONE AS IT TRIES
TO WITHDRAW ITS TROOPS.
AND HE ANNOUNCED JOINT MILITARY
EXERCISES WITH THE U.S. AND
BRITAIN.
BUT CRIMEA'S NEW PRIME MINISTER
APPEARED UNFAZED.
HE BANNED UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS
FROM ENTERING THE REGION, AND
CALLED FOR OTHER PARTS OF
UKRAINE TO FOLLOW CRIMEA'S LEAD.
>> ( translated ): THIS
PATRIOTIC RISE THAT WE HAVE IN
CRIMEA AND IN RUSSIA TODAY THAT
UNITED US ALL REGARDLESS OF OUR
POLITICAL VIEWS OR POLITICAL
PARTIES, SHOULD CONTINUE AND
SPREAD OVER TO SOUTH-EASTERN
UKRAINE
>> Woodruff: AND, INDEED, PRO-
RUSSIAN MILITIA MEMBERS TOOK UP
POSITIONS TODAY OUTSIDE DONETSK,
IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
THEY SAID THEY WERE READY TO
BLOCK ANY WESTERN FORCES FROM
ENTERING.
MEANWHILE, THE U.S. AND EUROPEAN
UNION AGAIN PRESSED MOSCOW TO
RELENT.
VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN WAS IN
LITHUANIA WHERE HE PLEDGED THE
U.S. WILL DEFEND ITS N.A.T.O.
ALLIES, AND THAT RUSSIA WILL PAY
A PRICE FOR SEIZING CRIMEA.
>> AS LONG AS RUSSIA CONTINUES
ON THIS DARK PATH, THEY WILL
FACE INCREASING POLITICAL AND
ECONOMIC ISOLATION.
THERE ARE THOSE WHO SAY THAT
THIS ACTION SHOWS THE OLD RULES
STILL APPLY, BUT RUSSIA CANNOT
ESCAPE THE FACT THAT THE WORLD
IS CHANGING AND REJECTING
OUTRIGHT THEIR BEHAVIOR.
>> Woodruff: IN A BID TO RESOLVE
THE CRISIS, THE U.N. SECRETARY
GENERAL, BAN KI-MOON, LEFT THIS
AFTERNOON FOR TALKS IN BOTH
MOSCOW AND KIEV.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL TALK WITH
MARGARET WARNER, ON THE GROUND
IN EASTERN UKRAINE, LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: ISRAELI AIR STRIKES
BLASTED SYRIAN MILITARY POSTS
TODAY, KILLING ONE SOLDIER AND
WOUNDING SEVEN.
THE RAIDS HAPPENED IN
SOUTHWESTERN SYRIA, NEAR THE
ISRAELI-OCCUPIED PART OF THE
GOLAN HEIGHTS.
ISRAEL SAID IT WAS RETALIATION
FOR A ROADSIDE BOMBING IN THE
GOLAN THAT WOUNDED FOUR ISRAELI
SOLDIERS.
SUSPICION FOR THAT ATTACK FELL
ON "HEZBOLLAH", THE
SHI-ITE MILITIA ALLIED WITH
SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: THE F.B.I. HAS
STEPPED UP ITS ROLE IN THE HUNT
FOR A MISSING MALAYSIAN
AIRLINER.
U.S. OFFICIALS SAID TODAY THE
BUREAU IS HELPING ANALYZE
DELETED DATA FROM THE PILOT'S
FLIGHT SIMULATOR.
THAT WORD CAME AMID AN UPROAR AT
THE MALAYSIAN GOVERNMENT'S DAILY
BRIEFING.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM LUCY
WATSON, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, IN KUALA
LUMPUR.
>> REPORTER: A MOTHER'S ANGUISH
FOR THE WHOLE WORLD TO SEE.
CAPTURED JUST MOMENTS BEFORE THE
MEDIA BRIEFING.
AFTER TRAVELING THOUSANDS OF
MILES TO BEG FOR ANSWERS.
THIS PANDEMONIUM IS BECAUSE THE
RELATIVES HAVE NOW BEEN TAKEN
INSIDE THIS ROOM BEHIND ME BY
OFFICIALS.
THEY CAME HERE THIS MORNING
BECAUSE SUCH IS THEIR
FRUSTRATION AND DISTRESS TOWARDS
THE MALAYSIAN GOVERNMENT AT THE
LACK OF INFORMATION THEY'RE
GETTING.
SOME 12 DAYS ON NOW.
HIDDEN AWAY BECAUSE EARLIER,
THEY DARED TO VOICE THEIR ANGER.
>> ( translated ): PLEASE HELP
ME BRING MY SON BACK.
I JUST WANT TO SEE MY SON. SO
MANY DAYS HAVE PASSED AND NOBODY
FROM THE GOVERNMENT HAS COME TO
SEE ME.
>> REPORTER: YET ON A DAY OF
GREAT DRAMA, THE INVESTIGATION
MADE LITTLE PROGRESS.
THE SEARCH IS NOW FOCUSING MORE
ON THE SOUTHERN INDIAN OCEAN.
THE MOST REMOTE AND FURTHEST
POINT WHERE THE AIRCRAFT
WOULD'VE RUN OUT OF FUEL.
BUT THERE ARE STILL GUARDS
OUTSIDE THE PILOT'S HOME.
AND POLICE CONTINUE TO ANALYZE
DATA FROM HIS FLIGHT'S
SIMULATOR.
SOME OF WHICH HE REMOVED.
>> SOME DATA HAS BEEN DELETED
FROM THE SIMULATOR AND FORENSIC
WORK TO RETRIEVE THIS DATA IS
ONGOING.
I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO STATE THAT THE
PASSENGERS, THE PILOT AND THE
CREW REMNTIL
PROVEN OTHERWISE.
>> REPORTER: IT'S NOT WHAT THEY
CAME TO HEAR.
AND THIS WAS NOT WHAT THEY
WANTED.
BUT THIS IS AN UNPRECEDENTED
EVENT.
>> Woodruff: FIRST LADY MICHELLE
OBAMA IS HEADED TO CHINA, FOR A
SIX-DAY VISIT.
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS SAY IT IS
NOT INTENDED TO ADDRESS ANY
POLICY ISSUES.
INSTEAD, MRS. OBAMA IS SCHEDULED
TO SPEND A DAY WITH THE CHINESE
PRESIDENT'S WIFE, FOCUSING ON
EDUCATION.
LATER, SHE AND HER MOTHER AND
TWO DAUGHTERS WILL VISIT
CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL SITES.
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNOR'S RACE
IN ILLINOIS BEGAN IN EARNEST
TODAY, ONE OF THE YEAR'S
TOUGHEST CAMPAIGNS, IN A STATE
WITH ONE OF THE HARDEST-HIT
ECONOMIES.
VENTURE CAPITALIST BRUCE RAUNER
WON TUESDAY'S REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY, SPENDING
$6 MILLION OF HIS OWN MONEY.
THIS MORNING, DEMOCRATIC
INCUMBENT PAT QUINN AND RAUNER
WERE ALREADY SWAPPING CHARGES
OVER THE MINIMUM WAGE AND
ECONOMIC LEADERSHIP.
>> A BILLIONAIRE WITH NINE
MANSIONS CALLING FOR A REDUCTION
IN THE MINIMUM WAGE AND TAKING
$2,000 DOLLARS OUT OF THE
POCKETS OF EVERYDAY PEOPLE WHO
ARE DOING THE BEST THEY CAN.
>> I'M PROUD OF THE BUSINESSES
WE'VE BUILT, I'M PROUD OF THE
SUCCESS WE'VE BROUGHT.
AND I WANNA BRING THAT SUCCESS
TO SPRINGFIELD.
RUN IT  MORE LIKE A BUSINESS,
MAKE IT EFFICIENT, EFFECTIVE,
TRANSPARENT.
>> Woodruff: DEMOCRATS HAVE HELD
THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE IN
ILLINOIS FOR MORE THAN A DECADE.
>> Woodruff: THE FEDERAL RESERVE
SIGNALED TODAY IT MAY START
RAISING SHORT-TERM INTEREST
RATES SOMETIME NEXT YEAR.
THAT WLD FOUOLLOW THE END OF THE
F.E.D.'S STIMULUS PROGRAM, WHICH
IT DIALED BACK ANOTHER NOTCH
TODAY.
THE COMBINATION DID NOT GO DOWN
WELL ON WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 114 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,222.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN 25
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,307.
AND THE STANDARD AND POOR'S 500
DROPPED 11 POINTS TO FINISH AT
1,860.
WE'LL HEAR SOME OF WHAT FED
CHAIR JANET YELLEN HAD TO SAY
TODAY, LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: ALSO AHEAD ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
TWO JOR MAAUTO-MAKERS UNDER
FIRE; RUSSIAN-SPEAKING TROOPS
SEIZE A UKRAINIAN NAVY BASE IN
CRIMEA; WORRIES OVER RISING SEA
LEVELS ALONG THE SOUTH FLORIDA
COAST; A NEW BOOK ON "THE
LOOMING GENERATIONALWD
IN THE U.S.; PLUS, ONE OF THE
MOST RENOWNED PAINTERS OF THE
20TH CENTRUY, SEEN IN A NEW
LIGHT.
>> Ifill: FOUR YEARS AFTER
LAUNCHING A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION OF TOYOTA, THE
GOVERNMENT WRAPPED UP ITS CASE
TODAY BY ANNOUNCING A MAJOR
SETTLEMENT, IN WHICH THE COMPANY
ADMITTED CRIMINAL WRONGDOING FOR
CONCEALING SAFETY CONCERNS.
>> TODAY WE CAN SAY FOR CERTAIN
THAT TOYOTA INTENTIONALLY
CONCEALED INFORMATION AND MISLED
THE PUBLIC ABOUT THE SAFETY
ISSUES BEHIND THESE RECALLS.
>> Repter:or IN A TOUGHLY WORDED
STATEMENT, ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER ANNOUNCED THE RECORD $1.2
BILLION SETTLEMENT THIS MORNING.
TOYOTA, THE FEDERAL
INVESTIGATORS SAID, PURPOSELY
CONCEALED WHAT IT KNEW ABOUT THE
FULL SCOPE OF "UNINTENDED
ACCELERATION" ISSUES, LINKING
THEM TO FAULTY BRAKES, STICKING
GAS PEDALS AND TANGLED FLOOR
MATS.
>> TOYOTA CONFRONTED A PUBLIC
SAFETY EMERGENCY AS IF IT WERE
SIMPLY A PUBLIC RELATIONS
PROBLEM.
PUT SIMPLY, TOYOTA'S CONDUCT WAS
SHAMEFUL.
IT SHOWED A BLATANT DISREGARD
FOR SYSTEMS AND LAWS DESIGNED TO
LOOK AFTER THE SAFETY OF
CONSUMERS.
BY THE COMPANY'S OWN ADMISSIONS,
IT PROTECTED ITS BRAND AHEAD OF
ITS OWN CUSTOMERS.
>> Ifill: RECALLS BEGAN IN 2009
AND ULTIMATELY SPREAD TO MORE
THAN 10 MILLION TOYOTA VEHICLES.
COMPANY SALES PLUNGED, BUT HAVE
SINCE REBOUNDED.
IN A NEWS RELEASE TODAY, TOYOTA
U.S.A.'S  CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER,
CHRISTOPHER REYNOLDS, INSISTED
THE AUTO GIANT HAS BECOME "MORE
RESPONSIVE" SINCE 2009.
HE SAID:
BUT HOLDER SAID THE CASE ALSO
SERVES AS A WARNING TO OTHERS IN
THE AUTO INDUSTRY.
>> OTHER CAR COMPANIES SHOULD
NOT REPEAT TOYOTA'S MISTAKE: A
RECALL MAY DAMAGE A COMPANY'S
REPUTATION, BUT DECEIVING YOUR
CUSTOMERS MAKES THAT DAMAGE FAR
MORE LASTING.
>> Reporter: THAT'S A NOT-SO-
VEILED REFERENCE TO GENERAL
MOTORS, NOW FACING IT'S OWN
FEDERAL INVESTIGATION OVER ITS
HANDLING OF FAULTY IGNITION
SWITCHES.
THE COMPANY FINALLY RECALLED 1.6
MILLION VEHICLES LAST MONTH.
AMID REVELATIONS IT HAD KNOWN OF
THE PROBLEM SINCE 2004.
ANOTHER 1.7 MILLION ADDITIONAL
VEHICLES WERE RECALLED FOR
DIFFERENT PROBLEMS ON MONDAY.
G.M. SAYS THERE'VE BEEN 13
DEATHS, BUT A STUDY FOR THE
"CENTER FOR AUTO SAFETY"  FOUND
THE REAL NUMBER COULD TOTAL MORE
THAN 300, A NUMBER G.M.
DISPUTES.
IN A VIDEO POSTED TO G-M'S
WEBSITE MONDAY, NEW C.E.O. MARY
BARRA PROMISED THE COMPANY IS
'COMPLETELY FOCUSED' ON THE
PROBLEM.
>> WE ARE PUTTING THE CONSUMER
FIRST AND TH IS ATGUIDING EVERY
DECISION WE MAKE.
>> Ifill: YESTERDAY, BARRA
APOLOGIZED, SAYING SHE'S VERY
SORRY FOR THE LOSS OF LIFE TIED
TO THE DEFECTS.
THE G.M. PROBE COULD LAST
MONTHS.
AS FOR TOYOTA, FEDERAL
PROSECUTORS SAY THEY'LL DISMISS
A CRIMINAL WIRE FRAUD CHARGE IN
THREE YEARS, IF THE COMPANY
FULLY COMPLIES WITH THE
SETTLEMENT.
>> Ifill: SOME FURTHER DETAIL ON
TODAY'S SETTLEMENT AND WHAT IT
MEANS FOR THE AUTO INDUSTRY.
DAVID SHEPARDSON COVERS IT FOR
"THE DETROIT NEWS."
AND JOAN CLAYBROOK IS A PAST
PRESIDENT OF PUBLIC CITIZEN AND
SERVED AS CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION DURING THE CARTER
ADMINISTRATION.
HOW DOES THIS COMPARE TO
PREVIOUS SETTLEMENTS WE'VE HEARD
ABOUT?
>> THIS IS BY FAR THE BIGGEST
EVER.
THIS WAS A HUGE BLOW TO THE
COMPANY.
YOU DON'T SEE THIS TYPE OF
LANGUAGE USED -- I MEAN,
SHAMEFUL, COVERUP -- AND SAID
THAT TOYOTA, DURING THE 2009
TIME FRAME KNEW IT HAD PROBLEMS
AND NOT ONLY DID IT OPT NOT TO
DO ANYTHING BUT IT CANCELED A
PROPOSED FIX.
SO THIS IS AS STRONG AS COMPANY
AS THE GOVERNMENT COULD BE AND
FINALLY EXTRACTED AN ADMISSION
OF WRONGDOING FROM TOYOTA WHICH
IT STEADFASTLY REFUSED TO DO FOR
FIVE YEARS.
>> Ifill: WE INVITED
REPRESENTATIVES FROM TOYOTA AND
GM TO JOIN US AND THEY DECLINED.
HOW BIG DEAL IS THIS?
>> I THINK IT WANTS HUGE.
IT'S HUGE BECAUSE THE NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION DOES NOT HAVE
AUTHORITY SO IT DEPENDS ON THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TO DO
SOMETHING THEY NEVER HAVE BEFORE
AND SUGGESTS IN THE SETTLEMENT
THEY'RE GOING TO DO SOMETHING
MORE WITH GENERAL MOTORS AND ARE
PUTTING OUT A WARNING TO ALL THE
COMPANIES.
COMPANIES ARE LOOKING AT THEIR
DEFECT FILES, WHAT THEY HAVE NOT
REPORTED AND SHOULD HAVE
REPORTED.
THIS IS GOING TO FORCE THEM TO
BEHAVE AND ACT IN THE CONSUMER
INTEREST.
>> Ifill: IN THESE BUSINESS
SETTLEMENTS, THE AFFECTED
COMPANY SAYS I'M NOT ADMITTING
WRONGDOING BUT DON'T WANT TO GO
TO COURT.
TOYOTA ADMITS CRIMINAL
WRONGDOING?
>> YES, IT'S THE DEFERRED
PROSECUTION AGREEMENTS.
THEY'RE NOT PLEADING GUILTY.
THAT'S SOMETHING THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT WANTED IN THE
NEGOTIATIONS, THEY WANTED TOYOTA
TO ADMIT THEY HAD DONE WRONG.
ON THE OTHER HAND, TOYOTA HAS
TURNED THE PAGE LIKE OTHER
COMPANIES, THEY'RE NOW RECALLING
VEHICLES A LOT FASTER.
THE COMPANY CHANGED DRAMATICALLY
SINCE THEN BUT ARE STILL PAYING
THE PRICE FOR WHAT HAPPENED
THEN.
>> Reporter: IS IT TRUE, JOAN
CLAYBROOK, COMPANIES ARE ALREADY
LEARNING THE LESSONS OF THE
LAWSUITS AND THREATS AND
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> THEY ARE BECAUSE THE
COMPANIES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO KEEP
A LOT OF THIS INFORMATION SECRET
AND THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC
SAFETY ADMINISTRATION HAS NOT
HAD LOT OF TRANSPARENCY, IT'S
SOMETHING WE'D LIKE TO SEE
CHANGED.
SO IT'S HARD FOR THE CONSUMER,
BUT IT GOES NO PLACE.
THESE COMPANIES HAVE BEEN
UNMASKED, IT'S VERY
EMBARRASSING, I HOPE CERTAINLY
ALL OF THEM WILL BE MORE
RESPONSIVE TO CONSUMER
COMPLAINTS AND LAWSUITS BECAUSE
THAT'S A SOURCE OF INFORMATION
ABOUT PROBLEMS ON THE ROAD.
>> Ifill: A BILLION DOLLARS IS
A LOT OF MONEY, $1.2 BILLION,
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF
LAWSUITS, FEDERAL, STATE, CIVIL
LAWSUITS WHICH I ASSUME ARE
STILL OUT THERE?
>> THE LEGAL BILLS FOR GM TOTAL
ARE TOPPING $3 BILLION.
$1.6 BILLION SETTLEMENT FOR
OWNERS OF TOYOTAS FOR VARIOUS
REASONS, THEY'VE SETTLED WITH
STATE ATTORNEY GENERALS, THERE
ARE INDIVIDUAL CLAIMS FOR
CRASHES, SO WHEN YOU'D ALL THE
COSTS UP TORE TOYOTA, IT WILL BE
WELL OVER $3 BILLION.
BUT REMEMBER, FOR THIS YEAR,
TOYOTA EXPECTS THE MAKE ABOUT
$19 BILLION IN PROFITS, DOUBLE
WHAT THEY MADE THE YEAR BEFORE
AND 30% OF THE REVENUE COMES
FROM THE U.S.
>> Ifill: THIS HASN'T AFFECTED
THEIR BOTTOM LINE?
>> CERTAINLY, BUT ONE OUT OF
19 BILLION IS STILL SIGNIFICANT,
BUT THEY'RE ABOUT GETTING PAST
THIS BECAUSE THIS IS A
PROFITABLE MARKET AND THE MORE
THEY CAN DO TO SHOW CUSTOMERS
THEY'RE WAY BEYOND THIS THE
BETTER SINCE THEY'RE MAKING A
LOT OF MONEY HERE.
>> Ifill: DAVID, YOU WERE HERE
LAST WEEK TALKING ABOUT THE
GENERAL MOTORS RECALL AND I
WONDER IF THIS RINGS A BELL FOR
YOU, JOAN CLAYBROOK, THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THIS AND THINKING,
OH, GENERAL MOTORS IS DEFINITELY
NEXT AND THERE'S DEFINITELY BEEN
A COVERUP OF THE GENERAL MOTORS
PROBLEM.
>> OH, ABSOLUTELY, THE COMPANY
FOUNDED TESTS IN 2004, SENT OUT
BULLETINS TO DEALERS IN 2005 AND
2006 IN WHICH THEY IDENTIFIED
WHAT THE FIX WAS.
THEY HAD A MEETING WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION IN
2007 WHERE THE DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION HAD AN
INVESTIGATION WHERE THE
INVESTIGATORS SAID BY THE WAY
THE IGNITION SWITCH WAS ON
ACCESSORY WHICH MEANT IT DIDN'T
OPERATE THE CAR BUT YOU COULD
PLAY THE RADIO AND WOULDN'T
INFLATE THE AIR BAG.
SO IT WAS CLEAR WAY BACK THEN.
AND I THINK THAT THE DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION HAS COMPLETELY
FAILED IN ITS DUTY HERE AND
GENERAL MOTORS HAS HARMED THE
PUBLIC SERRABLY AND I THINK
THERE ARE GOING TO BE MANY MORE
DEATHS AND INJURIES THAT ARE
GOING TO SHOW UP.
NOW THAT THE PUBLIC IS AWARE OF
THIS, THEY'RE CALLING GENERAL
MOTORS, THEY HAVE 50 PEOPLE
ANSWERING THE PHONES, AND YOU'RE
GOING TO HEAR A LOT MORE.
>> IF IT IS TRUE THAT THERE'S
HANDWRITING ON THE WALL HERE,
WHAT STRATEGY IS GENERAL MOTORS
USING TO RESPOND TO TRY TO GET
OUT AHEAD OF IT?
>> I THINK THEY PUBLICLY
APOLOGIZED THIS WEEK, SAID THEY
WERE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF THE
VICTIMS, HAVEN'T EXPLAINED HOW,
BUT I DO THINK THERE ARE A LOT
OF QUESTIONS LEFT UNANSWERED.
YES, THE CHRONOLOGY IS LAID OUT
THAT THEY DIDN'T KNOW
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS OVER TEN
YEARS, WE DON'T HAVE THE
E-MAILS, THE MEMOS, THE CONGRESS
ARE SEEKING TO KNOW WHAT DID
THEY KNOW, WHEN DID THEY KNOW
IT, DID GM REALLY THINK THIS WAS
A SERIOUS PROBLEM OR WAS IT AS
SOMEONE SUGGESTED A FAILURE TO
CONNECT THE DOTS?
SO I THINK THERE ARE STILL A LOT
OF QUESTIONS.
WE DON'T KNOW IF WHAT HAPPENED
TO GM RISES TO THE SAME LEVEL AS
TOYOTA BUT THAT'S WHAT CONGRESS
IS GOING TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
AND WHAT GM HAS TO BE WORRIED
ABOUT ARE THEY GOING TO TAKE THE
SAME HIT.
>> Ifill: THAT WAS VERY STRONG
LANGUAGE FROM THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT, NOT JUST FROM THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL, BUT THE
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION, THE
INVESTIGATOR FROM THE F.B.I.
SO WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT A
CHANGE IN ATTITUDE MAYBE IN THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TOWARDS THESE
KINDS OF INVESTIGATIONS.
>> IT'S INTERESTING THAT NISA
CAN ONLY IMPOSE PENALTIES OF
$60 MILLION ON TOYOTA AND THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAID, NO,
WE'LL FIND YOU A BILLION POINT
TWO FOR ALL THE VEHICLES YOU
SOLD WHICH WE BELIEVE WERE
FRAUDULENTLY SOLD.
SO THAT BASICALLY MEANS THEY CAN
FINE GM OR ANY OTHER AUTO
COMPANY, SKY IS THE LIMIT, IF
THEY DETERMINE THEY BROKE THE
LAW AND EVERY AUTO COMPANY HAS
TO BE VERY NERVOUS AND CHECKING
THEIR BOOKS CAREFULLY.
>> Ifill: DO YOU THINK IT'S A
CHANGE IN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
APPROACH?
>> WE NEED NEWLATION, CRIMINAL
PEANUTS, HIGHER CIVIL PENALTIES,
MORE TRANSPARENCY AT THE AGENCY.
YEAH, LIKE DON'T ASK, DON'T
TELL, THEY DON'T SCRKS THEY
DIDN'T TELL.
I THINK THEY SHOULD HAVE.
SO THERE ARE A NUMBER OF CHANGES
INCLUDING IS OF
DOCUMENTS AND THEY NEED A HIGHER
BUDGET, THE BUDGET IS
$134 MILLION FOR THE WHOLE AUTO
SAFETY PROGRAM, FOR THE ENTIRE
UNITED STATES, TOTALLY
INSUFFICIENT.
>> JOAN CLAYBROOK, PUBLIC
CITIZEN, HOW ARE YOU, AND DAVID
SHEPARDSON OF THE DETROIT NEWS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: DESPITE ASSURANCES
FROM RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN YESTERDAY THAT RUSSIA
WOULD STOP AT CRIMEA MANY ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE FATE OF
EASTERN UKRAINE.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
ARRIVED IN THE CITY OF DONETSK
THIS MORNING.
IT'S BEEN THE SCENE OF FIERCE,
SOMETIMES DEADLY, STREET BATTLES
IN THE LAST WEEK BETWEEN PRO-
RUSSIAN AND PRO-UKRAINIAN
DEMONSTRATORS.
I SPOKE TO MARGARET A SHORT TIME
AGO.
MARGARET, HELLO.
FIRST OF ALL, THIS NEWS THAT
UKRAINE IS ANNOUNCING PLANS TO
PULL ALL OF ITS TROOPS OUT OF
CRIMEA, WHAT ARE YOU HEARING?
>> WELL, JUDY, THIS NEWS JUST
BROKE IN THE LAST HOUR SO WE
CALLED THE AID DECAMP OF THE
COLONEL COMMANDING THE MILITARY
BASE WHICH IS RIGHT NEAR THE
CAPITOL WHOM WE INTERVIEWED IN
OUR PIECE ON FRIDAY, AND THIS
AIDE DECAMP SAID AS FAR AS THEY
KNOW, THEY'VE RECEIVED NO ORDERS
YET, JUST STILL HUNKERED DOWN.
HOWEVER, THE ORDERS ARE NOT
SURPRISING FROM KIEV IN THAT THE
ACTING PRESIDENT SAID SOMETHING
LIKE A WEEK OR TEN DAYS AGO THEY
DO NOT HAVE FORCES TO SEND DOWN
TO CRIMEA TO RESCUE OR FIGHT
BACK FOR CRIMEA BECAUSE THEY
WILL NOT BE ABLE TO DEFEND THE
REGION WHERE I AM NOW WHICH IS
SOUTHEASTERN UKRAINE ALONG THE
RUSSIAN BORDER.
>> YOU'VE NOW MOVED
INTO A DIFFERENT PART OF
UKRAINE.
HOW DIFFERENT DOES IT FEEL,
MARGARET, FROM CRIMEA?
>> YOU KNOW, REALLY DIFFERENT,
USEDY, AND I'M KIND OF SURPRISED
BECAUSE I'VE READ SO MUCH ABOUT
THE PRO RUSSIA DEMONSTRATION,
MORE VIOLENCE THAN THEY'VE EVER
HAD IN CRIMEA, A PRO-UKRAINIAN
COMMON ADMINISTRATOR KILLED LAST
THURSDAY IN A FACE-OFF BETWEEN
THE TWO CAMPS.
BUT THE DIFFERENCE IN CRIMEA,
%75 TO 80 RUSSIAN, THE PRO
RUSSIAN WAS PALPABLE.
PEOPLE WALKED AROUND WITH
RUSSIAN FLAGS, WEARING THE
ORANGE AND BLACK SYMBOL OF
RUSSIAN STRENGTH AND SYMBOLISM,
AND THERE WAS AN ELECTION GOING
ON.
HERE, IT IS MUCH MORE SUBTLE.
THERE IS PRORUSSIAN SENTIMENT
HERE, IT FULLY HAS BEEN AROUSED.
INFORMATION, I MET WITH THE
GOVERNOR TODAY AT SOME LENGTH,
THIS MILLIONAIRE BUSINESSMAN WHO
IS THE GOVERNOR HERE WHO SAYS
THAT, OFF CAMERA, REALLY, IT'S
GENERATED BY THE 100 OR 200
RUSSIAN SPECIALISTS, HE CALLED
THEM, WHO COME IN HERE, THEY'VE
GOT THE WHOLE PLAY BOOK, THEY
KNOW WHAT TO DO, BUT THEY ALSO
CAN GET 4,000 OR 5,000 PEOPLE
OUT IN A SQUARE TO DEMONSTRATE
IN FAVOR OF CLOSER TRIES OR EVEN
UNION WITH RUSSIA.
SO THERE IS GOING ON HERE, BUT
YOU DO NOT HAVE, FOR INSTANCE,
RUSSIA OR RUSSIAN MILITARY
FORCES ON EVERY CORNER LIKE THE
WAY YOU DID IN CRIMEA.
SO THERE'S A MORE SUBTLE STORY
BUT ONE KIEV IS WORRIED ABOUT.
>> SO ARE YOU PICKING UP
REACTION MARGARET TO PUTIN'S --
THE RUSSIANS TAKING CRIMEA?
>> WELL, YES, JUDY.
AT A SHOPPING CENTER TONIGHT, I
WOULD SAY THE NUMBER ONE
REACTION WAS ONE OF GRIEF.
YOU KNOW, CRIMEA IS A PLACE THAT
UKRAINIANS LIKE TO VACATION --
FABULOUS HIKING, GREAT
BEACHES -- AND PEOPLE TOLD US
THEY WERE ACTUALLY VERY SAD
ABOUT THIS.
ONE MAN SAID I'M FEELING MORE
UKRAINIAN NOW THAT PART OF MY
COUNTRY HAS BEEN TAKEN AWAY.
THERE WAS A GENT WHEN WHO SAID
HE LIVED IN BELA RUSSIA AND HE
SAID HE THOUGHT IT WAS MARVELOUS
SOME UKRAINIANS CAN GO BACK TO
THE MOTHER COUNTRY.
SO THERE'S A SPLIT.
AGAIN, THE THING KIEV HAS TO BE
WORRIED ABOUT IS A COUPLE OF
PEOPLE WE TALKED TO SAID, YOU
KNOW, I DON'T WANT TO BE PART OF
RUSSIA, I HAVE RELATIVES THERE.
I DON'T WANT REALLY TO LIVE IN
RUSSIA, BUT I'M NOT GOING TO GO
OUT AND FIGHT FOR THIS UKRAINIAN
GOVERNOR EITHER.
LET THEM GO OUT AND FIGHT.
AND THIS IS REALLY THE PROBLEM
AT THE KIEV GOVERNMENT FACES
WHICH IS TO MAKE PEOPLE FEEL
THEY HAVE A STAKE IN UKRAINE AS
AN INDEPENDENT COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: SO GIVEN THAT,
WHAT DO YOU THINK THE CHANNELS S
ARE EASTERN UKRAINE CAN BE THE
NEXT FLASHPOINT.
>> THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT THE
SORT OF PUTIN PLAYBOOK HAS BEEN
FOLLOWED HERE.
SINCE S.A.T. DAY, THEY HAVE
DEMONSTRATIONS IN 11 DIFFERENT
CITIES ALMOST AT THE SAME TIME,
NOW THAT IS NOT AN ACCIDENT.
SO THERE IS SOME KIND OF
OPERATION GOING ON HERE.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN IT OURSELVES
BECAUSE IT'S ONLY BEEN HERE LESS
THAN 24 HOURS.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN A DEMONSTRATION
YET AND WHAT THE KIEV GOVERNMENT
IS WORRIED ABOUT IS THAT, ACE
SAID, THEY DO TAP INTO SOME
PRO-RUSSIAN SENTIMENT HERE.
IN CRIMEA THERE'S PEOPLE THAT
SAY, WELL, WE WATCH RUSSIAN
TELEVISION, HEAR ABOUT HOW MUCH
BETTER CONDITIONS THERE ARE
THERE, PEOPLE GET HIGHER
PENSIONS AND BENEFITS AND WAGES.
WHETHER OR NOT THAT'S TRUE
REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
BUT I THINK THEIR CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV DOES HAVE A
LEGITIMACY PROBLEM.
THEY HAVE NOT WON ALL THE HEARTS
AND MINDS OF THE PEOPLE HERE IN
THIS PART OF UKRAINE, AND, SO,
THEY HAVE APPOINTED THE
OLIGARCHS, BUSINESSMEN, ONE OR
TWO WE MET WITH AT LENGTH TODAY,
WHO REALLY HAVE BEEN BROUGHT IN
TO TRY TO SORT OF RALLY THE
TROOPS AND ALSO RESTORE ORDER,
DOING SOME OF THE MANAGEMENT
THEY HAVE TO DO WITH WHAT HAS
BEEN AN UNMANAGEABLE SITUATION.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER,
GREAT REPORTING FROM UKRAINE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: IT'S OFTEN
DIFFICULT TO SEE HOW CLIMATE
CHANGE IS ALTERING THE
ENVIRONMENT IN OUR DAILY LIVES.
TO COUNTER THAT AND DRAW
ATTENTION TO THE ISSUE,
THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY LAUNCHED A
NEW WEBSITE TO VISUALIZE
SCIENTIFIC DATA ON DROUGHTS,
WILDFIRES AND THE RISE IN SEA
LEVELS.
AS YOU'LL SEE IN THIS REPORT,
THE RESIDENTS OF SOUTH FLORIDA
ARE ALREADY NOTICING HOW HIGHER
WATER IS CHANGING THEIR LOCAL
LANDSCAPE.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KWAME
HOLMAN NARRATES OUR STORY, IT
WAS DONE IN COLLABORATION WITH
THE SOUTH FLORIDA PUBLIC MEDIA
STATION W.P.B.T., AND BEGINS
WITH LONGTIME FISHING BOAT
CAPTAIN DAN KIPNIS.
>> I LIVED IN FLORIDA MY WHOLE
LIFE.
I'M ACTUALLY A NATIVE AND MORE
IMPORTANTLY I'VE BEEN ON MIAMI
BEACH FOR LIKE 55 YEARS, AND I'M
A CAPTAIN.
CAPTAINS ARE USED TO LOOKING AT
THE OCEAN, IF YOU LOOK AT IT
LONG ENOUGH AND I'VE HADNOUG EH
TIME TO LOOK AT IT, YOU CAN SEE
SMALL CHANGES TURN INTO BIG
CHANGES OVER A PERIOD OF TIME,
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE WATER COMING
OUT OF BISCAYNE BAY, UP THE
STORM SEWERS AND ONTO THE
STREETS UNTIL ITS ABOUT A FOOT
DEEP.
AND THAT'S NOT FRESHATER W,
THAT'S SALT WATER.
THERE'S NO RAIN, NOT A CLOUD IN
THE SKY.
EVERYONE CAN SEE THAT.
PEOPLE GO OH, WE BROKE A SEWER
MAIN, OR A WATER MAIN BROKE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT IT IS, THAT'S
SEA LEVEL RISE.
>> Reporter: MIAMI BEACH IS A
BARRIER ISLAND THAT IS MOSTLY
ONLY A FEW FEET ABOVE WATER
LEVEL.
HIGH TIDES ARE HIGHER THAN THEY
WERE IN THE PAST, AND THE RISK
OF TORRENTIAL RAINSTORMS HAS
WORSENED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE.
IN RECENT YEARS, INCREASED
FLOODING FROM HIGH TIDE AND
WEATHER EVENTS HAS BEEN A STARK
WAKE UP CALL FOR PEOPLE VINGLI
ON SOUTH BEACH.
>> I REMEMBER PEOPLE TAKING
PICTURES AND LAUGHING WHEN WE
SAW PEOPLE CANOEING DOWN WEST
AVENUE, BUT THEN A LOT OF PEOPLE
STARTED ASKING QUESTIONS.
IT'S SCARY IN A LOT OF WAYS THAT
WHAT COULD ACTUALLY HAPPEN HERE.
>> Reporter: DR. HAL WANLESS,
PROFESSOR AND CHAIR OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGIC SCIENCES
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI HAS
BEEN STUDYING SEA LEVEL RISE FOR
DECADES.
>> THE TWO BIG THINGS THAT HAVE
BEEN AND WILL AFFECT SEA LEVEL
ARE THE EXPANDING OCEAN AS IT
WARMS.
THE SECOND BIG FACTOR AFFECTING
SEA LEVEL RISE NOW, IS ICE MELT,
AND THE ICE MELT'S A TOTALLY
DIFFERENT GAME.
ICE CAN MELT AT RAPIDLY
ACCELERATING RATES.
I VIDEOED THIS TIME LAPSE
FOOTAGE IN GREENLAND IN AUGUST
OF 2013 AS THESE ICEBERGS MELT,
THEY ADD TO SEA LEVEL RISE
>> Reporter: SOUTH FLORIDA
POLITICAL LEADERS HAVE ADOPTED A
UNIFIED SEA LEVEL RISE
PROJECTION, CALCULATED BY THE
U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS.
THESE PROJECTIONS INDICATE SEA
LEVELS WILL RISE THREE TO SEVEN
INCHES BY 2030 AND NINE TO 24
INCHES BY 2060.
PETE HARLEM KNOWS THESE
PROJECTIONS ALL TOO WELL. HE IS
THE G.I.'S COORDINATOR AT
FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL
UNIVERSITY, AND PIONEERED THE
PRECISE MAPPING OF SEA LEVEL
RISE FOR SOUTH FLORIDA.
>> TWO FEET OF SEA LEVEL RISE IS
PROJECTED FROM ROUGHLY FROM
2040-2060 SOME TIME AND WHEN WE
GET TO THAT POINT, THIS IS THE
MIAMI BEACH OF THAT NEAR FUTURE.
NOW TAKING THAT WATER LEVEL TO
FOUR FEET, IT'S JUST NOT GONNA
BE A PLACE YOU WANNA LIVE IN A
HOUSE.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S NOT JUST
PEOPLE LIVING ON BARRIER ISLANDS
WHO NEED TO BE CONRNEDCE ABOUT
SEA LEVEL RISE.
MOST OF SOUTH FLORIDA IS
SUSCEPTIBLE TO FLOODING, AS
INFRASTRUCTURE BECOMES
OVERWHELMED BY RISING SEAS OR
HEAVY RAINFALL.
DR. JAYANTHA OBEYSEKERAIS IS THE
CHIEF MODELER AND AN EXPERT IN
SOUTH FLORIDA'S COMPLICATED
HYDROLOGIC SYSTEM.
>> WE HAVE REGIONAL FLOOD
CONTROL SYSTEM THAT WAS DESIGNED
AND BUILT BY THE U.S. ARMY CORE
OF ENGINEERS JOINTLY WITH THE
STATE ABOUT 50 YEARS AGO, AND AT
THAT TIME, SEA LEVEL RISE WAS
NOT A MAJOR FACTOR THAT THEY
WORRIED ABOUT, BUT NOW, SOME OF
THE INFRASTRUCTURE WE HAVE ON
THE COASTAL BELT ARE BASICALLY
NOT WORKING AS THEY WERE
DESIGN.ED
>> Reporter: WHEN WE HAVE HEAVY
RAINFALL, THE CANALS RECEIVE AND
MOVE THE EXCESS WATER.
THAT WATER IS RELEASED INTO THE
BAYS AND ESTUARIES AND
EVENTUALLY INTO THE OCEAN.
THE SYSTEM WAS DESIGNED FOR THE
WATER TO FLOW BY GRAVITY, WITH
THE WATER FLOWING FROM THE
HIGHER CANAL LEVELS INTO THE
LOWER OCEAN LEVELS.
AS THE SEA RISES HOWEVER,
GRAVITY WILL NO LONGER DO THE
JOB AND SO THERE COULD BE MORE
FLOODING ON THE LAND AS THE
WATER HAS NOWHERE TO GO.
RICHARD GROSSO IS THE DIRECTOR
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND LAND
USE LAW CLINIC AND A PROFESSOR
OF LAW AT NOVA SOUTHEASTERN
UNIVERSITY.
>> ITS BEEN THE LOCAL UTILITY
DIRECTORS, PEOPLE WHO RUN WATER
TREATMENT PLANTS, PEOPLE WHO RUN
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS, PEOPLE
WHMAINO TAIN ROADS, WHO HAVE
BEEN REQUIRED TO INSTITUTE VERY
EXPENSIVE RETROFITS.
>> Reporter: THE MIAMI BEACH
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARENT TMIS
WORKING ON IMPROVEMENTS NOW.
>> WE'VE DONE OUR STORM WATER
MANAGEMENT MASTER PLAN THAT WAS
ADOPTED IN 2012 AND THAT HAD
IDENTIFIED APPROXIMATELY $200
MILLION WORTH OF IMPROVEMENTS
THAT WE NEEDED TO DO OVER THE
NEXT 20 YEARS IN ORDER TO KEEP
PACE WITH SEA LEVEL RISE AND
ADDRESSING FLOODING CONCERNS
WITHIN THE CITY OF MIAMI BEACH.
>> Reporter: SOME OF THIS
INFRASTRUCTURE INCLUDES PUMPS.
>> EVERYTHING COLLECTS IN THE
INLETS ON THE STREETS THEN RUNS
THROUGH THOSE WHITE PIPES DOWN
THERE.
THEY'RE P.V.C. PIPES. THEY THEN
ALL DRAIN VIA GRAVITY TO THE
STORM WATER PUMP STATION AND
THEN PUMPED OUT OF THE STORM
WATER PUMP STATION AND INJECTED
INTO THE GROUND 80-100 FEET
DOWN.
WE'RE SIZING THESE PUMPS TO
PROVIDE THE PROPER LEVEL OF
SERVICE 20 YEARS FROM NOW AND AT
THE SEA LEVEL 20 YEARS FROM NOW.
>> Reporter: MIAMI BEACH IS NOT
ALONE IN ADDRESSING SEA LEVEL
RISE.
SOUTH FLORIDA HAS BECOME A MODEL
FOR REGIONAL COOPERATION ON THIS
ISSUE.
A FOUR COUNTY CLIMATE CHANGE
COMPACTS PROJECTIONS WERE TURNED
INTO AN ACTION PLAN WITH MORE
THAN 100 RECOMMENDATIONS, THESE
ARE NOW BEING REVIEWED.
SOME HAVE BEEN ADOPTED BY COUNTY
GOVERNMENTS.
BROWARD COUNTY MAYOR KRISTIN
JACOBS HAS BEEN AT THE FOREFRONT
OF SOUTH FLORIDA CLIMATE CHANGE
DISCUSSIONS AND HAS EARNED
NATIONAL RECOGNITION FOR HER
WORK.
>> I SEE THE BIGGEST OBSTACLES
FOR US IN GOING FORWARD ARE TERM
LIMITS.
WHEN YOU CONSIDER THE LEADERS
THAT ARE NECESSARY, THE
CHEERLEADERS THAT ARE NECESSARY
TO CONTINUE PULLING THIS VERY
HEAVY TRAIN FORWARD.
AND WITHOUT THAT LEADERSHIP, THE
ONE THAT CASTS THE VOTE, THE ONE
THAT DECIDES THE BUDGET, THE ONE
THAT DIRECTS THEIR STAFF
RESOURCES TO ANY GIVEN PRIORITY,
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THAT AT ANY
GIVEN TIME THIS COULD ALL FALL
APART.
>> Reporter: BUT THESE PLANS
COME AT A HIGH PRICE, SOMETHING
ALWAYS POLITICALLY DIFFICULT.
AS A MEMBER OF THE COMPACT,
FORMER COUNTY COMMISSIONER KATY
SORENSON HAS BEEN AN ADVOCATE
FOR PLANNING FOR THE COMING
CHANGES.
>> NO ONE WANTS TO PAY INCREASED
TAXES OR FEES BUT IF PEOPLE WANE
THESE INVESTMENTS TO DO THE
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING, THE
PUMP SYSTEMS, ALL THE STUFF THAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE SO THAT WE CAN
STAY HABITABLE.
>> ONE OF THE BIGGEST CHALLENGES
WE HAVE IN SOUTH FLORIDA AND
ACROSS THE COUNTRY IS THIS
DISCONNECT BETWEEN THE BEST
LONG-TERM INVESTMENT AND
ECONOMIC STRATEGIES FOR A
COMMUNITY VERSUS A POLITICAL
PROCESS THAT IS SHORT TERM IN
TERMS OF IT'S REWARDS.
FOR MOST LOCAL ELECTED
OFFICIALS, THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
BE AROUND TO REAP THE REWARDS OF
THOSE SMART THOUGHTFUL DECISIONS
THAT THEY MADE 10-20 YEARS AGO.
AND SO THAT SYSTEM STILL PUTS
PRESSURE ON THE FOLKS WHO DO
HAVE THE POWER, WHO DO HAVE THE
VOTES TO CONTINUE TO MAKE SHORT-
TERM GAIN KINDS OF DECISIONS,
THAT IS OUR BIGGEST CHALLENGE
PRESENTED BY SEA LEVEL RISE
RIGHT NOW.
>> Reporter: RECENTLY,
COMMISSIONERS FOR THE CITY OF
MIAMI BEACH VOTED ON MEASURES
THAT ARE EXPECTED TO DOUBLE TO
$400 MILLION THE COST OF KEEPING
WATER OUT OF ITS CITY STREETS.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN READ MORE
ABOUT THE WHITE HOUSE'S NEW
CLIMATE DATA INITIATIVE, AND
FIND A LINK TO A FULL
DOCUMENTARY ON RISING SEA
LEVELS.
THAT'S FROM SOUTH FLORIDA'S
W.P.B.T., AND IT'S ON OUR
WEBSITE.
>> Ifill: JANET YELLEN HELD HER
FIRST NEWS CONFERENCE TODAY AS
THE NEW CHAIR OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE AND SHE IMMEDIATELY
WEIGHED IN ON A FEW KEY
QUESTIONS.
AMONG THEM: WHEN WILL INTEREST
RATES RISE?
BACK IN DECEMBER 2012, FED
OFFICIALS SAID THEY WOULD KEEP
SHORT-TERM INTEREST RATES NEAR
ZERO UNTIL UNEMPLOYMENT DIPPED
TO 6.5%.
BUT EVEN AS THAT RATE HAS
DROPPED, THE JOB MARKET DOESN'T
SEEM ALL THAT STRONG.
TODAY, YELLEN EXPLAINED WHY THE
FED WILL USE OTHER DATA BEYOND
THE JOBLESS RATE.
THAT SEEMS LIKE THE ONE THAT IS
LIKELY TO BE BREACHED.
THE QUESTION IS, MARKETS WANT TO
KNOW, THE PUBLIC WANTS TO
UNDERSTAND BEYOND THAT THRESHOLD
HOW WE DECIDE WHAT TO DO.
BUT IN ASSESSING THE REAL ESTATE
OF SLACK IN THE MARKET AND
ULTIMATELY ITS INFLATIONARY
PRESSURES -- OR DEFLATIONIARY
PRESSURES THAT COULD RESULT FROM
THAT, IT'S APPROPRIATE TO LOOK
AT MANY MORE THINGS.
>> Ifill: YELLEN, THE FED'S
VICE CHAIR UNDER BEN BERNANKE,
WAS ALSO ASKED HOW HER ROLL WAS
CHANGED.
>> IN MANY WAYS I FEEL THE BUCK
STOPS WITH ME IN TERMS OF
MANAGEMENT OF THE FOCM AND
RESPONSIBILITY TO ASSURE THAT
THE FEDERAL RESERVE MAKES
PROGRESS ON ITS GOALS OF GETTING
THE ECONOMY BACK ON TRACK AND
MAKING PROGRESS ON OUR FINANCIAL
STABILITY AND REGULATION
OBJECTIVES.
>> Ifill: TO HELP US ASSESS THE
DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS AT THE FED.
I AM JOINED BY DAVID WESSEL.
DIRECTOR OF THE HUTCHINS CENTER
ON FCAL ISAND MONETARY POLICY AT
THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION, AND A
COLUMNIST FOR THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL.
WELCOME BACK SO.
THE NEWS TODAY IS THIS SUPPORT
THAT IT'S BEEN PROVIDING TO THE
ECONOMY IS GOING TO CONTINUE.
>> SHE SAID, AS IS EXPECTED, THE
FED WILL CONTINUE TO REDUCE THED
BUYING, BUT I THINK THE MORE
FOCUS ON WHAT SHE SAID ABOUT
WHAT WILL HAPPEN WHEN IN TERMS
OF RAISING INTEREST RATES.
>> Ifill: WHAT DID SHE SAY?
WELL, THE FED SAID, AS SHE
POINTED OUT, THEY WOULD KEEP
RATES LOW WELL BEYOND TO WHERE
UNEMPLOYMENT GETS TO 6.5%.
WE'RE ALMOST THERE SO THEY HAD
TO CHANGE THEIR PREMISES.
SHE HAD A LONG LIST OF THINGS
THEY WILL LOOK AT AND THE BOTTOM
LINE IS WE'RE GOING TO KEEP
INTEREST RATES LOW FOR A VERY
LONG TIME, PROBABLY WELL INTO
2015, AND RAISE THEM WHEN WE
RAISE THEM VERY, VERY SLOWLY
BECAUSE THE ECONOMY HAS BEEN SO
WEAK.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS SOME
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT WHEN THAT
WOULD ACTUALLY BE.
>> YEAH, I THINK WHAT HAPPENED
WAS SHE WAS TRYING TO BE VAGUE.
>> Ifill: THAT NEVER HAPPENS
(LAUGHTER)
>> BUT SHE MADE A MISTAKE AND
GOT A LITTLE SPECIFIC.
SHE SAID THEY WOULD KEEP RATES
NEAR ZERO FOR A CONSIDERABLE
PERIOD AFTER THEY STOPPED BUYING
BONDS, THAT'S WHAT THE STATEMENT
SAID, AND I THINK THAT WAS MEANT
TO BE VAGUE.
SOME REPORTER SAID, WHAT DO YOU
MEAN "CRIMINAL PERIOD"?
SHE SAID, OH, SIX MONTHS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT, AT WHICH
POINT THE MARKET DID THE
ARITHMETIC AND SAID, OH, MY GOD,
THEY'RE GOING TO RAISE RATES IN
MARCH 2015 AND THE STOCK MARKET
PLUNGED.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE THE FORECAST
OF THE INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF THE
F1C, SHE CALLED DOCK PLOT IN THE
QUARTERLY STATEMENT, YOU CAN SEE
MOST EXPECT RATES TO GO UP
SOMETIME IN 2015.
>> BUT SHE WASN'T SUPPOSED TO
SAY THAT?
>> I THINK SHE WAS MEANT TO BE
VERY CAREFUL TO BE CONTINGENT TO
SAY WE ARE IN A PLAN TO KEEP
RATES LOW FOR A LONG TIME,
PROVIDING THE ECONOMY BEHAVES AS
WE EXPECT.
THE CHARTS SHOWED ABOUT 2013.
I THINK THE SIX MONTHS A LITTLE
MORE SPECIFIC.
>> Ifill: WHY IS UNEMPLOYMENT
NOT AN EFFECTIVE YAR YARDSTICK T
DECIDING WHEN THE FEDS SHOULD
ACT?
>> BECAUSE THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
LOOKS BETTER THAN THE JOB MARKET
BECAUSE SO MANY DROPPED OUT OF
THE WORKFORCE.
IF YOU'RE NOT LOOKING FOR WORK
YOU'RE NOT COUNTED AS OFFICIALLY
UNEMPLOYED.
SHE NOTED 5% OF THE PEOPLE IN
THE WORKFORCE ARE WORKING PART
TIME BUT WISHED FOR FULL TIME.
SO THEY'RE EMPLOYED BUT NOT FULL
TIME AND SHE SAID THAT WAS A
HIGH CONCERN OF HERS.
>> Ifill: WHEN WE THINK OF THE
FED AND THE KINDS OF ACTIONS
THEY TAKE, WE THINK ABOUT
NUMBERS, HOW MUCH, WHERE, HOW
MANY MONTHS, WHAT THE INTEREST
RATE IS, BUT SEEMS LIKE IT ALSO
MORE ABOUT NUANCE THAN NUMBERS.
>> RIGHT, AND THE MARKETS DO
NUMBERS NOT NUANCE.
SO SHE HAS A DIFFICULT TIME.
SHE'S TRYING TO COMMUNICATE TO
THE MARKETS, WE'RE GOING TO KEEP
RATES LOW FOR A LONG TIME.
WE THINK THAT IF THE ECONOMY
BEHAVES AS WE EXPECT THAT WE'LL
PROBABLY BEGIN RAISING THEM IN
2015.
WE HAVE A LOT OF DISAGREEMENT
ABOUT HOW FAST WE'RE GOING TO
RAISE THEM AND EVERYTHING COULD
CHANGE IF THE ECONOMY DOES
POORLY OR, AS SHE POINTED OUT,
IF INFLATION CONTINUES TO BE
SURPRISINGLY LOW, WHICH SHE
MENTIONED SEVERAL TIMES.
>> Ifill: AS YOU KNOW, WE
WATCH VERY CAREFULLY THESE
CHANGES IN COMMAND OVER AT THE
FED.
SHE WAS BEN BERNANKE'S DEPUTY.
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THERE'S
GOING TO BE ANY CHANGE.
SCHAU SHE DIFFERENT FROM HIM?
>> I DON'T THINK THERE WILL BE
ANY BIG CHANGE IN POLICY.
I THINK WHAT HAPPENED, IT'S LIKE
WE HAD A BROADWAY SHOW AND A
LEADING MAN WHO WAS THE ACTOR ON
A SUCCESSFU SUCCESSFUL BROADWAYR
EIGHT YEARS, HE LEFT PRODUCTION,
AND THIS WAS THE DEBUT OF HIS
REPLACEMENT.
>> Ifill: THE UNDERSTUDY.
YEAH, AND WE NEVER QUITE KNOW
HOW SHE'S GOING TO DO WITH THE
SPOTLIGHT ON HER.
SO I THINK THERE WILL BE
DIFFERENCES IN STYLE, BUT I
DON'T THINK THERE WILL BE
DIFFERENCES IN POLICY, AND I
THINK SHE HANDLED THE DEBUT
PRETTY WELL, EXCEPT FOR THAT ONE
SLIP, I THINK IT WAS WELL DONE.
>> Ifill: I WAS GOING TO ASK,
YOU'VE COVERED THE FED -- I
DON'T THINK THERE WERE PRESS
CONFERENCES BEFORE BERNANKE TOOK
OVER -- BUT YOU'VE WATCHED THE
ROLLOUT BEFORE.
HOW DID SHE HANDLE THAT AND WHAT
KIND OF FIRST IMPRESSIONS DID
SHE LEAVE?
>> I THINK SHE WAS COMFORTABLE
ANSWERING QUESTIONS.
SHE SEEMED NERVOUS READING HER
STATEMENT.
SHE FIELDED THE QUESTIONS WELL.
SHE GAVE VERY LONG ANSWERS.
I DON'T KNOW WHETHER THAT WAS A
TACTIC BECAUSE YOU GIVE LONGER
ANSWERS, YOU GET FEWER
QUESTIONS.
I'VE SEEN PRESIDENT OBAMA DO
THAT TO YOU.
>> Ifill: RIGHT.
THINK SHE USED A LITTLE
MORE ECONOMIC JARGON THAN
MR. BERNANKE DID AND I SUSPECT
SHE'LL WORK ON THAT BUT ALL IN
ALL I GIVE HER A HIGH MARK FOR A
DEBUT FOR WHICH THERE WAS A LOT
OF PRESSURE.
>> Ifill: DAVID WESSEL, THANKS
FOR HELPING US.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THERE'S THE
SO-CALLED SILENT GENERATION, THE
BOOMERS, GENERATION-X, AND MOST
RECENTLY THE MILLENNIALS.
EACH HAS LEFT, AND IS LEAVING,
AN IMPRINT UNIQUE TO THEIR
NAMES.
BUT NOW WE KNOW ABOUT THE WAYS
THE YOUNGEST ADULTS DIFFER FROM
AND CLASH WITH THEIR PARENTS AND
GRANDPARENTS.
THAT'S THE FOCUS OF THE NEW
BOOK, "THE NEXT AMERICA: BOOMERS
MILLENNIALS AND THE LOOMING
GENERATIONAL SHOWDOWN" BY PAUL
TAYLOR, THE EXECUTIVE VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE NON-PARTISAN
RESEARCH CENTER.
I TALKED TO HIM RECENTLY.
PAUL TAYLOR, GREAT TO HAVE YOU
BACK ON THE PROGRAM.
>> WHAT A PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: SO LET'S TALK
ABOUT THIS.
THE LOOMING SHOWDOWN.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY THAT?
AS YOU TALK, I WANT OUR AUDIENCE
TO LOOK AT HOW REBREAK DOWN THE
AGE GROUPS.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY LOOMING
GENERATIONAL SHOWDOWN?
>> THERE IS A BOOK ABOUT
DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE AND
GENERATIONAL EQUITY.
THE COUNTRY HAS GONE THROUGH TWO
MASSIVE DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES
SIMULTANEOUSLY.
WE'RE BECOMING A MAJORITY OF
NON-WHITE NATION.
WE'RE WORKING TOWARD 22% WHITE.
AT THE SAME TIME, 10,000 BABY
BOOMERS A DAY TURNED 65.
ANOTHER 10,000 TOMORROW TURNS
65.
THIS CONTINUES EVERY SINGLE DAY
UNTIL 2030 AT WHICH POINT WE
HAVE DOUBLED THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE ON SOCIAL SECURITY AND
MEDICARE AND THE SYSTEMS DON'T
WORK ANYMORE.
SO WHAT THIS BOOK DOES IS LOOK
AT THOSE CHANGES AND LOOKS AT
THE POTENTIAL GENERATIONAL
CONFLICTS THAT ARE SET UP
BECAUSE YOUNG ADULTS TODAY
BECAUSE OF THESE CHANGES DON'T
LOOK ALIKE, DON'T THINK ALIKE
AND DON'T VOTE ALIKE AND WE'LL
HAVE TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
REBALANCE OUR SOCIAL SAFETY NET
TO MAKE IT WORK IN THE 21s
21st CENTURY WITH A LOT OF
POLITICAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
YOUNG AND OLD.
>> Woodruff: AND BIG
CHALLENGES.
THE AGE GROUPS, THE MILLENNIALS
18-33 YEARS OLD TODAY, GEN X
34-39 TODAY.
THE BOOMERS 50 TO 68.
AND THE SILENT 69 TO 86.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE POLITICS.
YOU MENTIONED THEY HAVE VERY
DIFFERENT VIEWS.
YOU FOUND -- AND AGAIN I DID
REPORTING ON THIS A NUMBER OF
YEARS AGO AND IT'S INTERESTING
HOW MANY OF THE THINGS WE SAW
THEN REMAINED TRUE FOR THIS
MILLENNIAL GENERATION, THEY
THINK OF THEMSELVES MORE THAT IS
INDEPENDENTS THAN ANY GENERATION
AT THEIR AGE.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS WE FOUND
FASCINATING IS THEY ARE NOT
ANCHORED TO SOME OF THE
TRADITIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF
SOCIETY.
THEY'RE POLITICALLY INDEPENDENT
AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS WE'VE EVER
MEASURED.
50% SAY I'M INDEPENDENT.
THEY'RE UNAFFILIATED WITH
RELIGIONS AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS
AND THEY'RE NOT GETTING MARRIED.
ONE IN FOUR TODAY OF THE 18 TO
32-YEAR-OLDS ARE MARRIED, ABOUT
HALF THE NUMBER OF THEIR
PARENTS' GENERATION WHEN THEY
WERE THE SAME AGE.
THE FACT THEY'RE POLITICALLY
INDEPENDENT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
THEY DON'T HAVE STRONG POLITICAL
VIEWS, THEY DO.
THEY'VE NOW BEEN IN THE
ELECTORATE FOR TWO OR THREE
NATIONAL ELECTION CYCLES AND
THEY HAVE COME IN AS THE MOST
STRONG AND DEMOCRATIC VOTING
COHORT IN THE 40 OR 50 YEARS
THEY HAVE BEEN MEASURING THESE
THINGS.
SO THEY'RE SOCIALLY LIBERAL AND
POLITICALLY LIBERAL.
THEY BELIEVE IN AN ACTIVE
GOVERNMENT.
THEY JUST DON'T LIKE THE IDEA OF
ATTACHING THEMSELVES TO BIGGER
ORGANIZATIONS.
THEY ATTACH THEMSELVES TO THEIR
FRIENDS IN THEIR NETWORKING
SITES.
>> Woodruff: IT IS INTERESTING
BECAUSE, AS YOU SAY, WHEN YOU
ADD THE MILLENNIALS WHO IDENTIFY
THEMSELVES AS DEMOCRATS, YOU GET
ABOUT 50% OF THIS AGE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE'S NO MISTAKING THEM AS A
DISTINCTIVE COHORT, JUST NOT
AFFILIATED TO PARTIES AND OTHER
INSTITUTIONS.
>> Woodruff: ONE OTHER THING
AND THERE IS SO MUCH TO TALK
ABOUT FROM THE BOOK, PAUL
TAYLOR, BUT A LITTLE BIT OF A
CONTRADICTION HERE.
YOU START OUT TALKING ABOUT HOW
THIS MAY BE THE FIRST GENERATION
IN OUR MEMORY, YOUNGER
GENERATION, WHO MAY GROW UP TO
BE NOT AS WELL OFF AS THEIR
PARENTS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THIS IS AN
OPTIMISTIC GENERATION.
>> VERY OPTIMISTIC.
MAYBE THAT'S JUST A TIMELESS
OPTIMISM OF YOUTH, BUT THE
ECONOMIC CIRCUMSTANCES ARE VERY
STRIKING FOR THIS GENERATION AND
THERE ARE OTHER REASONS WHY SO
FEW ARE GETTING MARRIED EVEN
THOUGH THEY'RE WELL INTO THEIR
20s AND EARLY 30s.
WE ASKED THEM, DO YOU VALUE
MARRIAGE?
AND MOST MILLENNIALS SAY YES.
WELL, WHY HAVEN'T YOU GOTTEN
MARRIED YET?
THE MOST COMMON RESPONSE IS I
DON'T HAVE THE ECONOMIC
FOUNDATION TO BE A GOOD
PROVIDER.
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF THEM ARE
LIVING AT HOME.
>> A LOT OF THEM ARE LIVING WITH
MOM AND DAD BECAUSE THAT TURNS
OUT TO BE A GOOD PLACE TO GO AND
YOU CAN'T FIND A JOB OR MAKE
ENDS MEET.
OF ALL THE ECONOMIC INDICATORS
WHETHER POVERTY RATES,
EMPLOYMENT, UNEMPLOYMENT,
TODAY'S MILLENNIALS ARE DOING
WORSE THAN THE XERES OR THE
BOOMERS WERE DOING AT THE SAME
STAGE IN THEIR LIFE CYCLE AND
THIS IS NEW.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW DO YOU
EXPLAIN THE VIEW THAT 49% OR
HALF OF THEM ARE UPBEAT ABOUT
AMERICA'S FUTURE?
>> THEY'RE UPBEAT ABOUT THEIR
OWN FUTURE.
WE ASK THE QUESTION OF ALL
ADULTS SAYING DO YOU HAVE ENOUGH
MONEY NOW TO LEAD THE LIFE YOU
WANT TO LEAD?
80% OF MILLENNIALS SAY IT WILL
WORK OUT FINE.
WHEN WE ASK ABOUT THE COUNTRY'S
FUTURE, MINIMUMMIALS ARE UPBEAT.
THE BOOMERS, WHO HAD THEIR
COMPLAINTS ABOUT AMERICA IN THE
'50s AND '60s, THEY'RE MUCH
LESS UPBEAT THAN THE YOUTH ABOUT
THE FEATURE OF THE COUNTRY.
I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING
DISTINCTIVE ABOUT THIS
GENERATION.
THEY MAY HAVE BEEN DEALT A LOUSY
HAND IN TERMS OF THE ECONOMY,
BUT THE 32-YEAR-OLDS TODAY,
THINK ABOUT WHEN THEY GOT OUT OF
SCHOOL AND THE ECONOMY THEY'VE
FACED OVER THE LAST SIX OR SEVEN
YEARS, THE ONES WHO DIDN'T GO
BEYOND HIGH SCHOOL HAVE HAD A
TERRIBLE TIME, THE ONES WHO DID
IT RIGHT AND WENT TO COLLEGE ARE
SADDLED WITH ENORMOUS STUDENT
DEBT THAT'S AN ALBATROSS TO THEM
GETTING STARTED.
YET, I DON'T KNOW WHETHER IT'S
DEBATABLE OR NURTURING PARENTAL
ENORMOUS THAT BROUGHT THEM UP, I
DON'T KNOW WHETHER IT'S A SENSE
OF EMPOWERMENT FROM BEING
DIGITAL NATIVES, AROUND
TECHNOLOGY WHERE YOU PLACE
YOURSELF AT THE CENTER OF THE
NETWORK YOU'VE CREATED, BUT THEY
BELIEVE IN THE FUTURE THAT I
THINK WILL WORK THAT OUT RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: THEY HAVE A LOT
OF YEARS FOR US TO TRY TO FIGURE
IT OUT.
THEY ARE A FASCINATING
GENERATION.
PAUL TAYLOR, PEW RESEARCH
CENTER, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
SPANISH ARTIST JOAN MIRO WAS ONE
OF THE MOST RENOWNED PAINTERS OF
THE 20TH CENTURY.
JEFFREY BROWN TAKES US TO AN
EXHIBITION THAT OFFERS THE
CHANCE TO SEE THE ARTIST IN A
NEW LIGHT.
>> Reporter: A RECENT EVENING AT
THE SEATTLE ART MUSEUM AND
VISITORS ARE PUZZLING OVER AN
ASSORTME OF NTCAST-OFF ITEMS.
A BENT GARDEN RAKE
A HEADLESS DOLL.
A FLATTENED STRAW BASKET.
>> Reporter: ALL ASSEMBLED INTO
SCULPTURAL CREATURES BY THE
SPANISH ARTIST JOAN MIRO, WHO
ONCE SAID, "HE WANTED TO CREATE
A PHANTASMAGORIC WORLD OF LIVING
MONSTERS."
CURATOR, CATHARINA MANCHANDA,
SAYS IF THEY ARE MONSTERS, THEY
ARE AT LEAST PLAYFUL ONES.
>> THIS SCULPTURE REALLY
RESONATES WITH ME.
IT CAPTURES BOTH SOMETHING SO
LIGHT-HEARTED, BUT ALSO IT HAS A
CERTAIN GRAVITAS, WHICH IS, OF
COURSE, REFLECTED IN ITS TITLE.
ITS CALLED "THE WARRIOR KING."
>> Reporter: "THE WARRIOR KING,"
BUT WITH A SPOON IN ITS HAND.
>> YES, HE IS BRANDISHING A
COOKING SPOON INSTEAOF AD
SWORD.
>> Reporter:  WHAT IS THAT, DO
YOU KNOW?
>> IT MIGHT BE AN EMBROIDERY
HOOP.
SO AN OBJECT THAT COMES FROM THE
HOME, PERHAPS MORE FEMININE.
THERE IS SOMETHING BOTH VERY
STRONG BUT ALSO FRAGILE THERE.
>> Reporter: THE 60 WORKS HERE,
FROM THE LAST TWO DECADES OF
MIRO'S LONG LIFE, AFTER HE WAS
ALREADY FAMOUS, ARE FROM THE
COLLECTION OF THE REINA SOFIA
MUSEUM IN MADRID AND NONE HAVE
EVER BEEN SHOWN IN THE U.S.
PAINTINGS FEATURE SYMBOLS AND
FIGURES, AS IN THE LARGE-SCALE
"WOMEN" AND "BIRD IN THE NIGHT."
>> THIS MAY LOOK COMPLETELY
ABSTRACT TO YOU WHEN YOU FIRST
LOOK AT IT.
ALL THESE PRIMARY COLORS ON THIS
WHITE BACKGROUND.
BUT WHAT WE ACTUALLY HAVE IS A
BIRD PERCHED IN SOME KIND OF
LANDSCAPE AND A CRESCENT MOON,
THAT BLUE SHAPE RIGHT ABOVE.
THEY ALL STAND FOR AN IMAGINARY
UNIVERSE.
>> Reporter: A NEW ELEMENT OF
LATE, MIRO IS THE INTERPLAY
BETWEEN PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
IN "WOMAN," "BIRD" AND "STAR,"
MANCHANDA SAYS, YOU CAN SEE
MIRO'S USE OF SHAPES AND
COLLAGE.
AND THEN COMPARE HOW SIMILAR
TECHNIQUES SHOW UP IN THE NEARBY
SCULPTURE TITLED "FIGURE."
>> Reporter: SO WALK ME THROUGH
THIS.
FONDUE FORKS, SOME KIND OF
GOURD-LIKE VEGETABLE, WHAT ELSE?
>> WE HAVE A WHOLE TREE TRUNK
HERE.
ALSO YOU CAN SEE OVER HERE THESE
LITTLE ARMS.
YOU CAN REALLY SEE EACH AND
EVERY OBJECT IN IT'S VARIOUS
COLORS AND MATERIALS, BUT THEN,
AND THIS IS THE IMPORTANT SECOND
STEP, HE CASTS THEM IN BRONZE
AND WHAT YOU GET AS A RESULT, IS
THAT THESE DISPARATE ELEMENTS
BECOME UNIFIED.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THE MEMORY OF
THESE JECTOBS.
>> Reporter: THE MEMORY OF THE
OBJECTS.
YOU THINK THAT IS THE WAY HE
THOUGHT ABOUT IT?
>> THAT'S HOW I THINK ABOUT IT,
YES.
>> Reporter: MIRO COLLECTED THE
OBJECTS FROM A VARIETY OF
SOURCES, OFTEN FINDING THINGS
WASHED UP ON THE BEACHES NEAR
HIS HOME IN MALLORCA.
BIOGRAPHER JACQUES DUPIN WROTE
THAT MIRO WOULD COME BACK FROM
WALKS LADEN DOWN LIKE A PACK
HORSE WITH ALL SORTS OF THINGS,
VALUELESS, OBSOLETE, BUT CAPABLE
IN HIS EYES, OF METAMORPHOSES.
ALL THE WORKS IN THIS
EXHIBITION, IN FACT, WERE
CREATED WHEN MIRO WAS IN HIS
70's AND 80's.
THIS IS A PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST
AS AN OLDER MAN.
>> HE WAS INTERNATIONALLY
CELEBRATED.
HE HAD RESPECT, AWARDS, AND
RECOGNITION.
HE COULD HAVE JUST BEEN CONTENT
WITH WHAT HE HAD ACCOMPLISHED.
BUT HE KEPT SAYING, "I HAVE TO
KEEP MOVING FORWARD."
>> Reporter: DID HE SLOW DOWN?
WERE THERE ANY SIGNS OF
DIMINISHING?
>> YOU WOULD THINK THAT WORK
LIKE THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN
PHYSICALLY QUITE DEMANDING.
I MEAN, HERE YOU ARE AT AGE 88
AND HE IS STILL BUILDING ALL
THESE DIFFERENT OBJECTS, SOME OF
THEM LARGER IN SCALE.
I DON'T SEE ANY INDICATION THAT
HE WAS SLOWING DOWN.
AND WHAT'S EVEN MORE AMAZING,
IT'S NOT LIKE HE WAS GOING BACK
AND REPEATING THINGS.
HE REALLY KEEPS PUSHING ON, ALL
THE WAY TO THE END.
>> Reporter: MIRO DIED IN 1983
AT THE AGE OF 90.
THIS EXHIBITION OF HIS FINAL
WORKS WILL REMAIN IN SEATTLE
THROUGH MAY.
AND THEN TRAVEL TO THE NASHER
ART MUSEUM IN NORTH CAROLINA.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
TOYOTA AGREED TO A RECORD
SETTLEMENT OF $1.2 BILLION FOR
MISLEADING THE PUBLIC ON SAFETY
ISSUES THAT TRIGGERED GLOBAL
RECALLS.
AND UKRAINE'S LEADERS MADE PLANS
TO WITHDRAW TROOPS FROM CRIMEA,
AS RUSSIAN FORCES SEIZED ANOTHER
KEY MILITARY SITE IN THE REGION.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, A NEW PLAN
WOULD ALLOW MICHIGAN STUDENTS TO
ATTEND COLLEGE FOR FREE, BUT
THERE'S A CATCH, THEY HAVE TO
THEN PAY IT FORWARD BY
CONTRIBUTING A FIXED-PERCENTAGE
OF THEIR FUTURE INCOME INTO A
FUND SO THAT OTHER STUDENTS MAY
BENEFIT.
IT'S A NEW IDEA THAT HAS OTHER
STATES CURIOUS TO SEE HOW WELL
IT MIGHT WORK.
WE HAVE THE DETAILS ON THE
RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL HAVE THE
LATEST FROM UKRAINE, AND HOW THE
U.S. HAS HANDLED THE CRISIS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.